.TH IMAGEPREP "1" "August 2023" "imageprep 7.0.0 (134)"

.SH NAME
imageprep \- Manipulate mutiple image files.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBimageprep\fR [\fB\-s\fR path] [\fB\-d\fR path] [\fB\-c\fR pad_colour]
          [\fB\-a\fR s scale_height scale_width] [\fB\-a\fR p pad_height pad_width]
          [\fB\-a\fR c crop_height crop_width] [\fB\-\-cropfrom point] [\fB\-r\fR] [\fB\-f\fR] [\fB\-x\fR]
          [\fB\-o\fR] [\fB\-h\fR] [\fB\-\-info\fR] [\fB\-\-createdirs\fR] [\fB\-\-version\fR]
          {files}

.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
\fBimageprep\fR is a macOS image preparation utility. Use it to crop, scale and/or pad one or mor images, convert them to other formats and/or set their print resolution (dots per inch). The image formats it supports are: PNG, JPEG, TIFF, PICT, BMP and GIF.

Specify a source directory with the \fB\-s\fR | \fB\-\-source\fR option, or provide a list of files after the options.

.SH OPTIONS
.P
\fB\-s\fR | \fB\-\-source\fR {path}                  The path to an image or a directory of images.
                                      Default: current working directory.
.P
\fB\-d\fR | \fB\-\-destination\fR {path}             The path to the images. Default: source directory.
.P
\fB\-a\fR | \fB\-\-action\fR {type} {width} {height} The crop/pad dimensions. The value of {type} is \fIs\fR (scale), \fIc\fR (crop) or \fIp\fR (pad).
                                      Provide absolute integer values for {width} or {height}, or the literal
                                      \fIx\fR to use the image's existing dimension, or the literal \fIm\fR to maintain
                                      the source image's aspect ratio.
.P
                                      You can add any number of actions: they will be applied in the order
                                      they appear at the command line.
.P
\fB\-c\fR | \fB\-\-colour\fR {colour}                The padding colour in hex notation, eg. \fIA1B2C3\fR. Default: \fIFFFFFF\fR.
.P
\fB\-\-cropfrom\fR {point}                    Anchor point for crop actions. Use \fItr\fR for top right, \fIcl\fR for centre left,
                                      \fIbr\fR for bottom right, etc.
.P
\fB\-\-offset\fR {x} {y}                      Specify a top\-left co\-ordinate for the crop origin.
                                      This setting will be overridden by \fB\-\-cropfrom\fR.
.P
\fB\-r\fR | \fB\-\-resolution\fR {dpi}               Set the image dpi, eg. \fI300\fR.
.P
\fB\-f\fR | \fB\-\-format\fR {format}                Set the image format. See \fBDescription\fR for supported formats.
.P
\fB\-o\fR | \fB\-\-overwrite\fR                      Overwrite an existing file. Without this, existing files will be kept.
.P
\fB\-x\fR                                    Delete the source file. Without this, the source will be retained.
.P
\fB\-\-createdirs\fR                          Make target intermediate directories if they do not exist.
.P
\fB\-\-info\fR                                Export basic image info: path, height, width, dpi and alpha.
.P
\fB\-q\fR | \fB\-\-quiet\fR                          Silence output messages (errors excepted).
.P
\fB\-h\fR | \fB\-\-help\fR                           This help screen.
.P
\fB\-\-version\fR                             Show \fBimageprep\fR Version information.

.SH EXAMPLES

Convert files in the current directory to JPEG and to 300dpi:
.IP
imageprep \fB\-f\fR jpeg \fB\-r\fR 300 \fB\-x\fR
.P

Convert the named files to JPEG and to 300dpi, keeping the orignals:
.IP
imageprep \fB\-f\fR jpeg \fB\-r\fR 300 image.jpg ~/images/image1.jpg
.P

Scale to 128 x 128, keeping the originals:
.IP
imageprep \fB\-s\fR $SOURCE \fB\-d\fR $DEST \fB\-a\fR s 128 128
.P

Scale to height of 1024, width in aspect, keeping the originals:
.IP
imageprep \fB\-s\fR $SOURCE \fB\-d\fR $DEST \fB\-a\fR s m 1024
.P

Crop files to 1000 x 100, making intermediate directories, keeping originals:
.IP
imageprep \fB\-s\fR $SOURCE \fB\-d\fR $DEST \fB\-\-createdirs\fR \fB\-a\fR c 1000 1000
.P

Crop files to 1000 x source image height, keeping originals:
.IP
imageprep \fB\-s\fR $SOURCE \fB\-d\fR $DEST \fB\-a\fR c 1000 x
.P

Crop files to 500 x 500, anchored at top right, keeping originals:
.IP
imageprep \fB\-s\fR $SOURCE \fB\-d\fR $DEST \fB\-a\fR c 500 500 \fB\-\-cropfrom\fR tr
.P

Pad to 2000 x 2000 with magenta, deleting the originals:
.IP
imageprep \fB\-s\fR $SOURCE \fB\-d\fR $DEST \fB\-a\fR p 2000 2000 \fB\-c\fR ff00ff \fB\-x\fR

.SH COPYRIGHT
Code and design copyright © 2023, Tony Smith (\fB@smittytone\fR). Source code available under the MIT licence.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIhttps://smittytone.net/imageprep/index.html\fR
